He’d read poetry to her. Verses and stanzas he’d cut out from magazines. Second-hand books he’d buy cheap from street vendors and lend to her one at a time, like a magpie guarding its precious treasure. Often, she’d tune out, trying to stifle her yawns and rein in her wandering thoughts, finding it all so incredibly dull. The poetry fan-sites he directed her to, the web page URLs he’d ping – those she would simply ignore without compunction.

He had a way with words; that much she acknowledged. His letters to her would all be long, philosophical, and deep. Her birthday, their anniversary, Diwali, Christmas – his gift to her at every milestone would always be accompanied by yet another one of his love letters. Along with the letter, he’d attach his favourite poem of the day, neatly copied out on thick card paper in his own hand. His letters she’d enjoy, reading them twice or thrice, sliding them out of their envelope and gently pushing them back in again to ensure they wouldn’t grow dog-eared.

—————————————

She’d read poetry to him. Verses and stanzas she’d cut out from magazines. Second-hand books she’d buy cheap from street vendors and lend to him one at a time, like a magpie guarding its precious treasure. Often, he’d tune out, trying to stifle his yawns and rein in his wandering thoughts, finding it all so incredibly dull. The poetry fan-sites she directed him to, the web page URLs she’d ping – those he would simply ignore without compunction.

She had a way with words; that much he acknowledged. Her letters to him would all be long, philosophical, and deep. His birthday, their anniversary, Diwali, Christmas – her gift to him at every milestone would always be accompanied by yet another one of her love letters. Along with the letter, she’d attach her favourite poem of the day, neatly copied out on thick card paper in her own hand. Her letters he’d enjoy, reading them twice or thrice, sliding them out of their envelope and gently pushing them back in again to ensure they wouldn’t grow dog-eared. Strange, if the genders of the world should be swapped.
