My first journalism job out of college was working at Popular Mechanics magazine. I wrote about things like robots and airplanes and nuclear power. One night I met up with a friend for dinner, and she invited two male co-workers from the ad agency she worked at. I told them I worked at Popular Mechanics. One of the men seemed very confused. He seemed to think my job was strange. I asked him why, and I’ll never forget his response: “Why would a cute blonde be interested in technology?”
He went on to say that I might as well be working at Playboy, that a woman’s desire to read about tech stuff was comparable to looking at male-targeted pornography. I tried to explain that roughly half the staff at Popular Mechanics were women. My friend chimed in that she used to work on cars when she was a teenager (actual mechanics). It was dinner, so I was trapped actually defending the notion that women are human beings with varied interests. Maybe this guy had just never met a woman before.

——————————

My first journalism job out of college was working at Popular Mechanics magazine. I wrote about things like robots and airplanes and nuclear power. One night I met up with a friend for dinner, and he invited two female co-workers from the ad agency he worked at. I told them I worked at Popular Mechanics. One of the women seemed very confused. She seemed to think my job was strange. I asked her why, and I’ll never forget her response: “Why would a cute blonde be interested in technology?”

She went on to say that I might as well be working at Playboy, that a man’s desire to read about tech stuff was comparable to looking at female-targeted pornography. I tried to explain that roughly half the staff at Popular Mechanics were men. My friend chimed in that he used to work on cars when he was a teenager (actual mechanics). It was dinner, so I was trapped actually defending the notion that men are human beings with varied interests. Maybe this girl had just never met a man before. Strange, if the genders of the world should be swapped.
